---
sort: 1
---

# Matplotlib: Basic Plotting
## Introduction to plot function of Matplotlib

Matplotlib is a mathematical library which allow us to bring life to data and translate them into graphs which tells us a story.
#insert nice graphics here #

Some of these graphs are more complex compared to others and depending on what you would like to show would imply different items.


First, we would need to import the library into our python interpreter which allows us to utilise it:

```python
import matplotplt as plt
```
Supposed that we would like to make a plot between 2 variables, we would required the usage of two arrays. For this example, we would have array X and Y containing three variables each. 
```python
X = [1,2,3]
Y = [1,2,3]
plt.plot(x,y)
plt.show()
```
$$insert graph here $$


We would be able to modify several parameters in code to format what would be generated. 
Colour, Markers, Line type, sizes are what we can modify in the presented format.
```python
X = [1,2,3]
Y = [1,2,3]
fmt = '[.][--]['b']'
plt.plot(x,y,fmt)
plt.show()
```
$$insert graph here $$
The displayed graph produced are of '.' marker, dash line type and blue color. 

# Let's plot with using Pandas
Here, we would be able to observe a line plot generated from two arrays which is done by default in Matplotlib. Similarly, we could do the same with any arrays generated by other libraries such as numpy and SciPy

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

x = np.arange(-2,5)
y = x*2 + 6

plt.plot(x,y)
plt.show()
